# Kids-Zone

The moment a child knows how to use a mobile, he/she becomes attached to it. Thus, most parents give their mobiles to their children at an early age. But they should be aware enough that mobile use must be restricted for children in terms of used apps and screen time per day. 

So, trying to help parents, we came up with Kids Zone. Kids Zone is an android mobile app (with SDK version 29), it’s developed to be installed on parents’ mobile to help them be more reassured about their child’s mobile use. It helps by monitoring the current mobile user (by capturing an image every 20 seconds using mobile front camera) and detects his/her age, then if the age is within the age range that is selected by parents, only a specific apps the kid can access and the rest will be blocked, also a screen time will count down and when it is finished, the mobile will be totally freeze till a user outside the age range holds it and his/her age is detected (screen time is automatically reset daily or can be manually reset). Parents can choose what apps can be used by their child, set the daily screen time duration, and select the age range that Kids Zone will run for. 

According to deep learning, after capturing the image, a face detection model is applied to it using YOLOv5s, then preprocessing phases are applied (face and landmark detection, filtering detected faces, face alignment, normalizing, and resizing), and finally applying age classification model which is MobileNetV2 with test accuracy=51% and 1-off accuracy 70% after several experiments on a merged dataset between UTK, Adience, and private datasets (private dataset is a dataset collected by the authors using a questionnaire survey).
